# Mihir-Thakur-dissertation
The football world is huge with multiple players playing across the world. In the modern age, it is not enough to look at a player and decide how good the individual actually is. This leads to the introduction of statistics in football. 
Statistics provides a completely different outlook as it aggregates and takes into account data from multiple seasons and hence it can be successfully analysed how good a player has been throughout his/her career and where there has been a dip in form or some wonderous season.
Statistics with the combination of machine learning can now be used to find position of a player on a field using heatmaps or rank the players across the season or certain number of matches.
PlayeRank frameworks is a resource to rank the players in any league, any season by the matches the individual has played. The algorithm is essential in modern football analytics and utilises statistics and machine learning at its core. The research is focused on implementation of the PlayeRank framework on the 2017/18 German Bundesliga season.
The research follows the route by implementing multiple machine learning algorithms on a binary classification dataset with target variable as a win or loss in a match. Appropriate assumptions have been made to decide if the match is a win or a loss for the home team or the away team. 
Decision Trees, Random Forest, Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machines and Gradient Boosting have been implemented and each algorithm provides a variable importance of the features. The research sheds further light on the importance of features from the algorithm and how they contribute towards calculating the final player ranks.
The research outlines the secondary methodology approach and provides an insight to why PlayeRank is essential and how it is changing football analytics for the better.
